# 1 Opening Activities

## 1-1 Opening comments (Co-Chair)

OASIS follows Robert's Rules to conduct meetings and to enforce IPR policy:

1. Only members and observers allowed, no guests
1. Observers are not allowed to speak up

## 1-2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair)

All participants recorded their attendance on the OASIS meeting calendar.
All participants were kindly encouraged to register themselves to optimize the use of the shared time during the meeting in one of two ways:

1. Following the link with the text "Register my attendance" on the top of the event page.
1. Or directly visiting the per event direct "record my attendance link."

### 1-2-1 Participants

* Aaron Lippold, Mitre Corporation,  Chair
* Amndeep Mann, Mitre Corporation,  Voting Member
* Emily Rodriguez, Mitre Corporation, Voting Member
* Mike Fraser, Sophos Ltd, Chair
* Patrick Maroney, AT&amp;T, Voting Member
* Stefan Hagen, Individual, Secretary

Quroum was **not** reached.

### 1-2-2 Observers Present

* Will Dower, Mitre Corporation, Observer (maintainer) 

Note: Observers of this committee that are ready to become Members should follow the specific instructions displayed the OASIS Open Notices tab.

In addition due to the informal nature of the meeting as an excemption to the OASIS rules, two guests were present:

* Derick Francis, Mitre Corporation, Guest
* George Dias, Mitre Corporation, Guest

The secretary strongly encouraged George and Derrick to become members or observers soon

## 1-3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair)

## 1-4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair)

* [Agenda](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=98764&wg_abbrev=ohdf)

The agenda was approved, but the meeting was informal, as quorum was not reached.

## 1-5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair)

* [Minutes of 2023-03-07 Meeting #1 (inaugural)](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/ohdf/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2023-03-07.md)

Approval of minutes was postponed to next quorate meeting.

## 1-6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary)

* No actions

## 1-7 Identification of OHDF TC voting members (Co-Chair)

### 1-7-1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

* Derick Francis
* George Dias

### 1-7-2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1-7-3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1-7-4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1-7-5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2 Future Meetings

## 2-1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair)

* Proposed meeting cadence is monthly
* Next few meetings bi-weekly to build up traction
* The officers to come up with a calendar poll for the next meeting

# 3 Liaisons

None

# 4 Discussion

## 4-1 Current State of OHDF

## 4-2 Plans for next phase of activity

* Capture and formalize current OHDF schema
  * Current suggestion: use [NIST Metaschema](https://pages.nist.gov/metaschema/)
  * Open call for other suggestions from TC
    * _Update after the meeting: Issue [Decide on how to describe the OHDF model and provide data format specific schemata](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/ohdf/issues/7) created_
  * Resolves open PR on [Seed Contribution InSpecJS Schemas](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/ohdf/pull/4)
    * Stefan explains the rationale behind the contribution 
* Develop the next data elements to be established for OHDF v1.0 draft
  * Current suggestions:
    * "[Target Data](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/ohdf/issues/8)" - the system to which the OHDF data pertains
    * "[Overall Control Status](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/ohdf/issues/9)" - dictates the "final" state of the control after all post-processing (attestations, waivers, etc.) is applied; can be used to override control state via attestations and waivers
    * "[Run Identifier](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/ohdf/issues/10)" - a UUID of some kind to differentiate the same OHDF-formatted scan run against the same target multiple times
      * Resolves issues raised by users regarding OHDF not having any IDs for individual runs
    * "[Adjudicated Control](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/ohdf/issues/11)" - boolean which is flipped to True if the Overall Control Status was changed by an attestation or waiver
      * Resolves concerns that attestations and waivers could be a "thumb on the scale" that would not be clear from the OHDF data
    * Stefan to move these suggestions to issues and write to TC email list that these can be discussed in the next meeting
      * _Update after the meeting: Issues created and linked to the list items above_ 

## 4-3 Next datatype integration research

* Current suggestion: [Integrating SBOM data into OHDF](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/ohdf/issues/13)
  * will also be added to issues
    * _Update after the meeting: Issue created and linked to the list item above_  
* Open call for other suggestions from TC
  * Aaron likes to know
  * Stefan 
    * likes to participate more
    * offers to act as one of the editors of the standards to write
    * is still not confident to grok
      * the vision and especially the current state of the working implementations
      * the models these are based upon
  * Aaron offers the following links to materials to approach the subject as currently maintained by Mitre and contributors:
    * Slides: 
      * [The New 'Normalized' - Standardizing Security Data using the OASIS Heimdall Data Format (OHDF)](https://saf.mitre.org/The-New-Normalized-OHDF.pdf)
    * Documentation: 
      * [Normalize - Convert security results from all your security tools into a common data format](https://saf.mitre.org/framework/normalize/)
      * [OHDF Converters - Converters for Normalizing Data](https://saf.mitre.org/libs/ohdf-converters)
      * [InSpecJS - Libraries for OHDF Parsing](https://saf.mitre.org/libs/inspecjs)
      * [TS InSpec Objects - Using TypeScript for InSpec Profile Handling](https://saf.mitre.org/libs/ts-inspec-objects)
    * Training materials:
      * [MITRE SAF Training - From Guidance Document to Automated Testing In No Time!](https://mitre.github.io/saf-training/)
    * _Update after the meeting: Issue [Identify material for awareness and education](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/ohdf/issues/12) created_ 
  * Stefan:
    * suggests he creates a motion per TC email list for creating another GitHub repo under the oasis-open organization for marketing and tutorial 
    * will add a few example URLs from other OASIS TCs
  * Patrick Maroney:
    * notes that there exist forms and advice from OASIS administration for migration material from an organization to OASIS "places"
    * he was remembers the OASIS CTI TC having done that for STIX and TAXI documentation 

# 5 Other Business

* Patrick Maroney: introduces himself and details his interest in supporting the OHDF TC

# 6 Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6-1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair)

## 6-2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary)

* None (informal meeting)

## 6-3 Review of Action Items (Secretary)

* None

# 7 Next Meeting

  TBD

# 8 Adjournment

The informal meeting was adjourned
